Thanks for your suggestions. We state that it is difficult to integrate SOTA OOD detection methods into existing approaches to tackle the challenges of covariate and semantic shifts. Here, these approaches either focus on domain generalization (DG) for covariate shifts or on OOD detection for semantic shifts.

Most existing SOTA OOD methods treat all covariate or semantic shifted instances as OODs. These OOD methods typically train a backbone classifier based on a single training domain, and the learned feature extractor (representation-learning layers) often blends domain-specific and class-related factors. As a result, **these OOD methods cannot differentiate covariate and semantic shifts**. However, in practice, it is more meaningful to detect semantic-shifted images (the images belonging to novel classes) as OODs instead of detecting covariate-shifted instances as OODs (e.g., images belonging to in-distribution classes but having novel backgrounds). **To integrate SOTA OOD methods, we need a semantic feature extractor that is effective for OOD detection and robust to domain shifts**.

As introduced in the third paragraph of Section 1, existing approaches to semantic OOD detection in unseen domains typically rely on established DG methods designed to learn domain-invariant feature extractors. However, the feature extractors learned by existing DG methods (e.g., MBDG) **only ensure domain invariance in class probability estimations (called G-invariance) that is ideal for ID classification, but not effective for semantic OOD detection**, as demonstrated in our theoretical and empirical analyses (e.g., Proposition 2 in Section 5 and Table 1 in Section 6).

Due to the above reasons, the direct integration of SOTA OOD methods into existing DG or semantic OOD detection methods is ineffective. Instead, **we need to learn a new semantic feature extractor that is capable of maintaining semantic consistency across different domains for both OOD detection and ID classification**, which is the focus of our work.

We would also like to clarify your following concern: "The related works of the recent two years in the references are very few." The field of semantic OOD detection in unseen domains, also known as open-set domain generalization, is indeed in its nascent stages, with very few works in the current literature, which is also confirmed in the recent ICML'23 and ICCV'23 papers [2, 33].
